# Preface

(**Navigation**: Type `q` to exit. Type `b` to go back to the previous page. Type `<Space>` to go to
the next page. Type `j` to scroll down by one line. Type `k` to scroll up by one line. You probably
want to remember these keys now since you need to scroll up and down this document as you read it.)

Whether you like it or not, software development on Linux holds significant importance in the field.
A common complaint from industry professionals is the lack of Linux proficiency and coding skills
among students. In response, this course aims to immerse you in a learning environment where a
terminal-based Linux becomes the primary tool for almost all class activities. This means that,
among other things, we have designed the entire course to prioritize *keyboard* usage over the mouse
for most of the class-related work. This is one of the many ways in which this course will challenge
you. Believe it or not, this is the *preferred* method of developing software for countless software
engineers. You will have one semester to experience it and decide if it suits you.

Also, becoming proficient in Linux programming requires extensive coding practice, encompassing
reading and writing a substantial amount of code, as well as reading and learning from various
documentation sources. Throughout the semester, this course will emphasize these aspects, so come
prepared. Consider yourself warned as it may pose a challenge for some of you.

As the first step, you will follow an online tutorial that familiarizes you with the Linux terminal
environment. The tutorial will cover essential Linux commands that you will likely use throughout
the semester. Additionally, it will introduce you to vi, a terminal-based text editor you'll use to
write code for this course.

Before proceeding with the tutorial, you need to set up your submission environment. We use GitHub
Classroom, which uses a version control system called Git. To use it, there are a few steps to
follow. After finishing reading this document, enter `glow -p GITHUB.md` (case sensitive) and follow
the instructions carefully to set things up. As mentioned already, reading and learning from various
documentation sources is a big part of becoming proficient in Linux programming (or *programming in
general*). This assignment, as well as all future assignments, will require you to do so.

# Next Steps

As mentioned earlier, make sure you change your default terminal window width to more than 100
characters, your default terminal window height to something sufficiently long, and your default
color scheme to "solarized dark" if possible (and read further about it at [the creator's
website](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/)).

Now, exit this document, enter `glow -p GITHUB.md` (case sensitive), and follow the instructions.

(**Navigation**: Type `q` to exit. Type `b` to go back to the previous page. Type `<Space>` to go to
the next page. Type `j` to scroll down by one line. Type `k` to scroll up by one line.)
